Add a brief explanation how to collect different telemetry (#1308)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/_index.md

Author: Alternatively, I could create a new page and then link to it from the Components page? Having a new page would be nice if we expand this sort of content to also cover non-telemetry components such as `local.file`.

Reviewer: As discussed, I think we should try putting it into the Collect section and then xref to it from a few places.

Author: I've done it just now. Would you like to have another look please?

# Components

This section contains reference documentation for all recognized [components][].

> For a birds eye view on the components ecosystem, refer to the [Choose a component][choose-component] page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Choose a Grafana Alloy component][choose-component] for an overview of the components ecosystem.
```

{{< section >}}

[components]: ../../get-started/components/

> ## How to collect different telemetry signals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Collect different telemetry signals

Components are the building blocks of Alloy. The components you select and configure depend on the telemetry signals you want to collect.

```

### Metrics for infrastructure

> Use `prometheus.*` components for collecting infrastructure metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `prometheus.*` components to collect infrastructure metrics.
```

This will give you the best experience with [Grafana Infrastructure Observability][].

For example, you can get metrics for a Linux host using `prometheus.exporter.unix`, 
and metrics for a MongoDB instance using `prometheus.exporter.mongodb`. 

You can also scrape any Prometheus endpoint using `prometheus.scrape`.
Use `discovery.*` components to find targets for `prometheus.scrape`.

[Grafana Infrastructure Observability]:https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/

### Metrics for applications

> Use `otelcol.receiver.*` components for collecting application metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `otelcol.receiver.*` components to collect application metrics.
```

This will give you the best experience with [Grafana Application Observability][], which is OpenTelemetry-native.

For example, use `otelcol.receiver.otlp` to collect metrics from OpenTelemetry-instrumented applications.

If your application is already instrumented with Prometheus metrics, there is no need to use `otelcol.*` components.
Use `prometheus.*` components for the entire pipeline and send the metrics using `prometheus.remote_write`.

[Grafana Application Observability]:https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-applications/application-observability/introduction/

### Logs from infrastructure

Use `loki.*` components to collect infrastructure logs.

> The `loki.*` components label your logs in a way which resembles Prometheus metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `loki.*` components label your logs in a way that resembles Prometheus metrics.
```

This makes it easy to correlate infrastructure metrics collected by `prometheus.*` components
with logs collected by `loki.*` components.

> For example, the label which both `prometheus.*` and `loki.*` components would use for a Kubernetes namespace is called `namespace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the label that both `prometheus.*` and `loki.*` components would use for a Kubernetes namespace is called `namespace`.
```

On the other hand, gathering logs using an `otelcol.*` component might use the [OpenTelemetry semantics][OTel-semantics] label called `k8s.namespace.name`,
which wouldn't correspond to the `namespace` label that is common in the Prometheus ecosystem.

### Logs from applications

Use `otelcol.receiver.*` components to collect application logs.

> This will gather the application logs in an OpenTelemetry-native way, which will make it easier to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will gather the application logs in an OpenTelemetry-native way, making it easier to 
```

correlate the logs with OpenTelemetry metrics and traces coming from the application.

> To make this correlation easier, all application telemetry must follow the [OpenTelemetry semantic conventions][OTel-semantics].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All application telemetry must follow the [OpenTelemetry semantic conventions][OTel-semantics], simplifying this correlation.
```

> For example, if your application is running on Kubernetes, every trace, log, and metric may have a `k8s.namespace.name` resource attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if your application runs on Kubernetes, every trace, log, and metric can have a `k8s.namespace.name` resource attribute.
```

[OTel-semantics]:https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/semantic-conventions/

### Traces

> Use `otelcol.receiver.*` components for collecting traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `otelcol.receiver.*` components to collect traces.
```
